= Hearken

This is a command line shell for queuing and playing music tracks.

It also extracts id3 tags from audio files for faster search.

This will eventually be platform independent but at this stage has only been used on mac os x

= Usage

Here you sit expectantly in front of a computer at the command line.

== Install

    gem install hearken

== Dependencies

Tags are currently extracted using ffmpeg.  On mac os x, this can be installed easily using brew:

    brew install ffmpeg

Growl notification (as new tracks are played) will work but only if 'growlnotify' is detected on the path.

== Indexing tracks

    hearken_index DIRECTORY

Will create a track index at ~/.hearken/music.

Note that this will take a long time first time you run it if you have a large collection of music.  Subsequent
runs will only query tags for new or modified files so will be very fast.

The index can be regenerated while the console is running and reloaded using the 'reload' command.

== Console

    hearken

This enters an interactive prompt where you can start/stop the player, search and enqueue tracks.

The queue will be persisted to ~/.hearken/queue

== Commands

    ?

will list all commands

    ? <command>

will describe the use and purpose of a particular command

== Main commands

    search iver bon

Searches for tracks with 'bon' and 'iver' in the track, artist or album name (this is case insensitive).

Results will be displayed and the ids will be added to the clipboard (for convenient pasting to the '+' command).

    + abc-f 123 456

Enqueues tracks with ids abc, abd, abe, abf, 123 and 456

    start

Starts the player

    stop

Stops the player

    next

Stops and restarts the player (which will kill the currently playing track)

    love

Tells last.fm that you love the current track (this will do nothing if last.fm is not configured or the player is
stopped)

    setup_scrobbling

Runs through a wizard to configure scrobbling to last.fm

	scrobbling on

Turns scrobbling on (has no effect if scrobbling has not been configured)

	scrobbling off

Turns scrobbling off

= Future plans for world domination

* add a '-' command to remove tracks from queue
* add a command to launch last.fm profile (for track history)
* put some content on wiki to explain usage (especially use of track ranges '+ eft-z')
* eliminate last.fm setup command once setup and add lastfm commands only when setup
* Get working on linux
* Get working on windows